# az400


* A personal access token (PAT) is used to connect a self-hosted agent to **Azure Pipelines**.
* Lifespan can be used to define the maximum lifespan of a PAT and control its lifecycle: implement policies that control the number of days that personal access tokens (PAT) are available.
* **Caching** is available YAML and classic build pipelines. It is not available in classic release pipelines.
* **Task groups**  are available only in classic build and classic release pipelines. 

---

*  A shared access signature (SAS) is used to authorize access to **Azure Storage**.
*  Detect whether the shared access signature (SAS) of an Azure Storage account is used in a GitHub repository: GitHub secret scanning can be used to automate source code analysis. A secret can be a token or private key used for authentication.
 
---

*  With `secure files`, you can store files in Azure DevOps to be **shared** across pipelines as well as assign proper permissions.
*  GitHub secrets can be created at the **organization** and **repository** levels.

 ---
 
*  **Azure Key Vault** is a secret store: a centralized cloud service for storing app secrets; configuration values like passwords and connection strings that must remain secure at all times.
*  Key Vault is intended for storing application secrets, NOT user secrets. Once app secrets have been loaded by an app, they are unprotected. Make sure to not log them, store them, or return them in client responses.
*  Authentication to Key Vault uses Azure Active Directory identities. Access policies are used to provide authorization for actions that apply to every secret in the vault.
*  Retrieve info from Azure Key Vault: `secretsFilter` - provides a default value of *, which allows you to download all the secrets or a comma-separated list of secret names
*  In Key Vault, a secret is a name-value pair of strings, or keys and certificates

  ```bash
# create secret
az keyvault secret set \
    --name SecretPassword \
    --value reindeer_flotilla \
    --vault-name <your-unique-vault-name
````

---

* Context file is the way to suppress false positives generated by OWASP ZAP to address only valid vulnerabilities.

---

* GitHub Actions are used to trigger an Azure pipeline to run directly from a GitHub Actions workflow
* Azure Monitor can be used in the release pipeline to detect whether active alerts are triggered and block or allow the next step. An artifact policy is used to check and evaluate artifacts.
* Release annotations allow the integration of Azure DevOps and Application Insights, showing build and release-related information to detect performance impact.

---

* Metrics Explorer provides direct access to aggregated data, including rates of requests, failures, and exceptions.
* Application Map lists the components of an app, including key metrics and alerts, but it does not provide direct access to aggregated data.
* Profiler allows you to inspect execution profiles of sampled requests
* Usage analysis allows you to analyze user segmentation and retention.

---

* **Semantic versioning**  has the form of `Major.Minor.Patch` corresponds to the three types of changes covered in the previous section.
  > Examples of versions using the semantic versioning scheme are `1.0.0` and `3.7.129`. These versions don't have any **labels**.
* The **major** element represents the version of content that has changed significantly, which results in some degree of incompatibility with the previous major version.
* The **minor** element represents the version of content that has been changed but not as significantly as the major version, making it more likely to be compatible with the previous minor version
*  The **patch** element represents a fix that preserves backward compatibility and can represent prereleases, such as alpha/beta.
